# Database For Emails
A school project to save and store emails from an XML file into a database and users are able to query over the database efficiently and search for certain words by specifying for body, subject, to/from, date then returning the full email that contains the key words. 
 
## What I learned
* How to efficiently store files 
* How to loop through the files efficiently while looking for key words that the user inputted

## How to run
To run phase 1 and 2 the user must first give the phase2.sh file permission by typing in “chmod u+x phase2.sh” after permission is given user must type in “./phase2.sh” to run the script file. This will create all the .txt file needed from phase1 and the .idx needed from phase 2. To run phase 3 the user must enter “python3 phase3.py” to run the program. In the phase 3 program the user is requested to input a query (with the option to quit at anytime by typing ‘QUIT’). The input is sent to the query function where it is examined to see if it fits the criteria to be a valid query. Then the function formats the input to manage the specifications and to break the input into the different queries that we need to execute. Depending on the subquery the function sends the required info to its corresponding function, the functions are sub_body, emails, and date. The ‘sub_body’ function handles queries on terms (body and subject). The ‘emails’ functions handles the email queries starting with one of bcc, cc, to, and from. Lastly the ‘date’ function handles date queries and based on these inputs, ‘:’,’<’,’>’,’<=’, and ‘>=’, either compares the date with others in the database or finds the matching ones. Finally the ‘print_output’ function reads the dictionary and checks whether the desired output is brief or full, which is handled by the ‘output’ function, and prints the consequent information.
